OnnxStack.StableDiffusion/README_Example.md, before:

﻿# OnnxStack.StableDiffusion - Onnx Stable Diffusion Services for .NET Applications

`OnnxStack.StableDiffusion` is a library that provides higher-level Stable Diffusion services for use in .NET applications. It offers extensive support for features such as dependency injection, .NET configuration implementations, ASP.NET Core integration, and IHostedService support.

## Getting Started

OnnxStack.StableDiffusion can be found via the nuget package manager, download and install it.
```
PM> Install-Package OnnxStack.StableDiffusion
```

### Microsoft.ML.OnnxRuntime
Depending on the devices you have and the platform you are running on, you will want to install the Microsoft.ML.OnnxRuntime package that best suits your needs.

### CPU-GPU via Microsoft Drirect ML
```
PM> Install-Package Microsoft.ML.OnnxRuntime.DirectML
```

### GPU support for both NVIDIA and AMD?
```
PM> Install-Package Microsoft.ML.OnnxRuntime.Gpu
```



### .NET Core Registration

You can easily integrate `OnnxStack.StableDiffusion` into your application services layer. This registration process sets up the necessary services and loads the `appsettings.json` configuration.

Example: Registering OnnxStack.StableDiffusion
```csharp
builder.Services.AddOnnxStackStableDiffusion();
```




## .NET Console Application Example

Required Nuget Packages for example
```nuget
Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting
Microsoft.Extensions.Logging
```

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting;
using OnnxStack.StableDiffusion.Common;
using OnnxStack.StableDiffusion.Config;

internal class Program
{
   static async Task Main(string[] _)
   {
      var builder = Host.CreateApplicationBuilder();
      builder.Logging.ClearProviders();
      builder.Services.AddLogging((loggingBuilder) => loggingBuilder.SetMinimumLevel(LogLevel.Error));

      // Add OnnxStack Stable Diffusion
      builder.Services.AddOnnxStackStableDiffusion();

      // Add AppService
      builder.Services.AddHostedService<AppService>();

      // Start
      await builder.Build().RunAsync();
   }
}

internal class AppService : IHostedService
{
   private readonly string _outputDirectory;
   private readonly IStableDiffusionService _stableDiffusionService;

   public AppService(IStableDiffusionService stableDiffusionService)
   {
      _stableDiffusionService = stableDiffusionService;
      _outputDirectory = Path.Combine(Directory.GetCurrentDirectory(), "Images");
   }

   public async Task StartAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   {
      Directory.CreateDirectory(_outputDirectory);

      while (true)
      {
         System.Console.WriteLine("Please type a prompt and press ENTER");
         var prompt = System.Console.ReadLine();

         System.Console.WriteLine("Please type a negative prompt and press ENTER (optional)");
         var negativePrompt = System.Console.ReadLine();


         // Example only, full config depends on model
         // appsettings.json is recommended for ease of use
         var modelOptions = new ModelOptions
         {
            Name = "Stable  Diffusion 1.5",
            ExecutionProvider = ExecutionProvider.DirectML,
            ModelConfigurations = new List<OnnxModelSessionConfig>
            {
                  new OnnxModelSessionConfig
                  {
                     Type = OnnxModelType.Unet,
                     OnnxModelPath = "model path"
                  }
            }
         };

         var promptOptions = new PromptOptions
         {
            Prompt = prompt,
            NegativePrompt = negativePrompt,
            DiffuserType = DiffuserType.TextToImage,

            // Input for ImageToImage
            // InputImage = new InputImage(File.ReadAllBytesAsync("image to image filename"))
         };

         var schedulerOptions = new SchedulerOptions
         {
            Seed = Random.Shared.Next(),
            GuidanceScale = 7.5f,
            InferenceSteps = 30,
            Height = 512,
            Width = 512,
            SchedulerType = SchedulerType.LMS,
         };


         // Generate Image Example
         var outputFilename = Path.Combine(_outputDirectory, $"{schedulerOptions.Seed}_{schedulerOptions.SchedulerType}.png");
         var result = await _stableDiffusionService.GenerateAsImageAsync(modelOptions, promptOptions, schedulerOptions);
         if (result is not null)
         {
            // Save image to disk
            await result.SaveAsPngAsync(outputFilename);
         }




         // Generate Batch Example
         var batchOptions = new BatchOptions
         {
            BatchType = BatchOptionType.Seed,
            ValueTo = 20
         };

         await foreach (var batchResult in _stableDiffusionService.GenerateBatchAsImageAsync(modelOptions, promptOptions, schedulerOptions, batchOptions))
         {
            // Save image to disk
            await batchResult.SaveAsPngAsync(outputFilename);
         }


      }
   }

   public Task StopAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   {
      return Task.CompletedTask;
   }
}
```


## Configuration
The `appsettings.json` is the easiest option for configuring model sets. Below is an example of `Stable Diffusion 1.5`.
The example adds the necessary paths to each model file required for Stable Diffusion, as well as any model-specific configurations. 
Each model can be assigned to its own device, which is handy if you have only a small GPU. This way, you can offload only what you need. There are limitations depending on the version of the `Microsoft.ML.OnnxRuntime` package you are using, but in most cases, you can split the load between CPU and GPU.

```json
{
   "Logging": {
      "LogLevel": {
         "Default": "Information",
         "Microsoft.AspNetCore": "Warning"
      }
   },

   "OnnxStackConfig": {
      "Name": "StableDiffusion 1.5",
      "IsEnabled": true,
      "PadTokenId": 49407,
      "BlankTokenId": 49407,
      "TokenizerLimit": 77,
      "EmbeddingsLength": 768,
      "ScaleFactor": 0.18215,
      "PipelineType": "StableDiffusion",
      "Diffusers": [
         "TextToImage",
         "ImageToImage",
         "ImageInpaintLegacy"
      ],
      "DeviceId": 0,
      "InterOpNumThreads": 0,
      "IntraOpNumThreads": 0,
      "ExecutionMode": "ORT_SEQUENTIAL",
      "ExecutionProvider": "DirectML",
      "ModelConfigurations": [
         {
            "Type": "Tokenizer",
            "OnnxModelPath": "D:\\Repositories\\stable-diffusion-v1-5\\cliptokenizer.onnx"
         },
         {
            "Type": "Unet",
            "OnnxModelPath": "D:\\Repositories\\stable-diffusion-v1-5\\unet\\model.onnx"
         },
         {
            "Type": "TextEncoder",
            "OnnxModelPath": "D:\\Repositories\\stable-diffusion-v1-5\\text_encoder\\model.onnx"
         },
         {
            "Type": "VaeEncoder",
            "OnnxModelPath": "D:\\Repositories\\stable-diffusion-v1-5\\vae_encoder\\model.onnx"
         },
         {
            "Type": "VaeDecoder",
            "OnnxModelPath": "D:\\Repositories\\stable-diffusion-v1-5\\vae_decoder\\model.onnx"
         }
      ]
   }
}
```

Commit message:

Add video dependencies to README

OnnxStack.StableDiffusion/README_Example.md, after:

﻿# OnnxStack.StableDiffusion - Onnx Stable Diffusion Services for .NET Applications

`OnnxStack.StableDiffusion` is a library that provides higher-level Stable Diffusion services for use in .NET applications. It offers extensive support for features such as dependency injection, .NET configuration implementations, ASP.NET Core integration, and IHostedService support.

## Getting Started

OnnxStack.StableDiffusion can be found via the nuget package manager, download and install it.
```
PM> Install-Package OnnxStack.StableDiffusion
```

### Microsoft.ML.OnnxRuntime
Depending on the devices you have and the platform you are running on, you will want to install the Microsoft.ML.OnnxRuntime package that best suits your needs.

### CPU-GPU via Microsoft Drirect ML
```
PM> Install-Package Microsoft.ML.OnnxRuntime.DirectML
```

### GPU support for both NVIDIA and AMD?
```
PM> Install-Package Microsoft.ML.OnnxRuntime.Gpu
```



### .NET Core Registration

You can easily integrate `OnnxStack.StableDiffusion` into your application services layer. This registration process sets up the necessary services and loads the `appsettings.json` configuration.

Example: Registering OnnxStack.StableDiffusion
```csharp
builder.Services.AddOnnxStackStableDiffusion();
```

## Dependencies
Video processing support requires FFMPEG and FFPROBE binaries, files must be present in your output folder or the destinations configured in the `appsettings.json`
```
https://ffbinaries.com/downloads
https://github.com/ffbinaries/ffbinaries-prebuilt/releases/download/v6.1/ffmpeg-6.1-win-64.zip
https://github.com/ffbinaries/ffbinaries-prebuilt/releases/download/v6.1/ffprobe-6.1-win-64.zip
```


## .NET Console Application Example

Required Nuget Packages for example
```nuget
Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting
Microsoft.Extensions.Logging
```

```csharp
using Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection;
using Microsoft.Extensions.Hosting;
using OnnxStack.StableDiffusion.Common;
using OnnxStack.StableDiffusion.Config;

internal class Program
{
   static async Task Main(string[] _)
   {
      var builder = Host.CreateApplicationBuilder();
      builder.Logging.ClearProviders();
      builder.Services.AddLogging((loggingBuilder) => loggingBuilder.SetMinimumLevel(LogLevel.Error));

      // Add OnnxStack Stable Diffusion
      builder.Services.AddOnnxStackStableDiffusion();

      // Add AppService
      builder.Services.AddHostedService<AppService>();

      // Start
      await builder.Build().RunAsync();
   }
}

internal class AppService : IHostedService
{
   private readonly string _outputDirectory;
   private readonly IStableDiffusionService _stableDiffusionService;

   public AppService(IStableDiffusionService stableDiffusionService)
   {
      _stableDiffusionService = stableDiffusionService;
      _outputDirectory = Path.Combine(Directory.GetCurrentDirectory(), "Images");
   }

   public async Task StartAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   {
      Directory.CreateDirectory(_outputDirectory);

      while (true)
      {
         System.Console.WriteLine("Please type a prompt and press ENTER");
         var prompt = System.Console.ReadLine();

         System.Console.WriteLine("Please type a negative prompt and press ENTER (optional)");
         var negativePrompt = System.Console.ReadLine();


         // Example only, full config depends on model
         // appsettings.json is recommended for ease of use
         var modelOptions = new ModelOptions
         {
            Name = "Stable  Diffusion 1.5",
            ExecutionProvider = ExecutionProvider.DirectML,
            ModelConfigurations = new List<OnnxModelSessionConfig>
            {
                  new OnnxModelSessionConfig
                  {
                     Type = OnnxModelType.Unet,
                     OnnxModelPath = "model path"
                  }
            }
         };

         var promptOptions = new PromptOptions
         {
            Prompt = prompt,
            NegativePrompt = negativePrompt,
            DiffuserType = DiffuserType.TextToImage,

            // Input for ImageToImage
            // InputImage = new InputImage(File.ReadAllBytesAsync("image to image filename"))
         };

         var schedulerOptions = new SchedulerOptions
         {
            Seed = Random.Shared.Next(),
            GuidanceScale = 7.5f,
            InferenceSteps = 30,
            Height = 512,
            Width = 512,
            SchedulerType = SchedulerType.LMS,
         };


         // Generate Image Example
         var outputFilename = Path.Combine(_outputDirectory, $"{schedulerOptions.Seed}_{schedulerOptions.SchedulerType}.png");
         var result = await _stableDiffusionService.GenerateAsImageAsync(modelOptions, promptOptions, schedulerOptions);
         if (result is not null)
         {
            // Save image to disk
            await result.SaveAsPngAsync(outputFilename);
         }




         // Generate Batch Example
         var batchOptions = new BatchOptions
         {
            BatchType = BatchOptionType.Seed,
            ValueTo = 20
         };

         await foreach (var batchResult in _stableDiffusionService.GenerateBatchAsImageAsync(modelOptions, promptOptions, schedulerOptions, batchOptions))
         {
            // Save image to disk
            await batchResult.SaveAsPngAsync(outputFilename);
         }


      }
   }

   public Task StopAsync(CancellationToken cancellationToken)
   {
      return Task.CompletedTask;
   }
}
```


## Configuration
The `appsettings.json` is the easiest option for configuring model sets. Below is an example of `Stable Diffusion 1.5`.
The example adds the necessary paths to each model file required for Stable Diffusion, as well as any model-specific configurations. 
Each model can be assigned to its own device, which is handy if you have only a small GPU. This way, you can offload only what you need. There are limitations depending on the version of the `Microsoft.ML.OnnxRuntime` package you are using, but in most cases, you can split the load between CPU and GPU.

```json
{
   "Logging": {
      "LogLevel": {
         "Default": "Information",
         "Microsoft.AspNetCore": "Warning"
      }
   },

   "OnnxStackConfig": {
      "Name": "StableDiffusion 1.5",
      "IsEnabled": true,
      "PadTokenId": 49407,
      "BlankTokenId": 49407,
      "TokenizerLimit": 77,
      "EmbeddingsLength": 768,
      "ScaleFactor": 0.18215,
      "PipelineType": "StableDiffusion",
      "Diffusers": [
         "TextToImage",
         "ImageToImage",
         "ImageInpaintLegacy"
      ],
      "DeviceId": 0,
      "InterOpNumThreads": 0,
      "IntraOpNumThreads": 0,
      "ExecutionMode": "ORT_SEQUENTIAL",
      "ExecutionProvider": "DirectML",
      "ModelConfigurations": [
         {
            "Type": "Tokenizer",
            "OnnxModelPath": "D:\\Repositories\\stable-diffusion-v1-5\\cliptokenizer.onnx"
         },
         {
            "Type": "Unet",
            "OnnxModelPath": "D:\\Repositories\\stable-diffusion-v1-5\\unet\\model.onnx"
         },
         {
            "Type": "TextEncoder",
            "OnnxModelPath": "D:\\Repositories\\stable-diffusion-v1-5\\text_encoder\\model.onnx"
         },
         {
            "Type": "VaeEncoder",
            "OnnxModelPath": "D:\\Repositories\\stable-diffusion-v1-5\\vae_encoder\\model.onnx"
         },
         {
            "Type": "VaeDecoder",
            "OnnxModelPath": "D:\\Repositories\\stable-diffusion-v1-5\\vae_decoder\\model.onnx"
         }
      ]
   }
}
```
